In this course, we have produced and consumed a lot of data to inform our Kafka cluster.
However, every time we want to produce or consume that data,
we have to let code to do it.
In this section, we'll see how we can use Kafka connect to avoid writing
boilerplate Kafka code and save some time in the process.
The team at confluent recognize there are
many common and repeated scenarios that developers
encounter to get data into and out of Kafka.
So the team set to work to build a pluggable framework for
building reusable Kafka producers and consumers.
The result of their effort was Kafka connect.
Kafka connect is a framework written in Java,
which allows developers to build an integration once and then
use it repeatedly with just a little bit of configuration.
It's possible to avoid using a Kafka client library
entirely if Kafka connect can satisfy your needs.
Let's walk through an example to see how this applies to us.
Pretend that we're working on an e-commerce application together.
We have dozens of models and a Postgres database.
Some models represent users,
some represent purchases and so on.
We want all of the data to be available on Kafka.
But we don't want to write the dozens of
Kafka producers required to put that data in Kafka.
It would take weeks of effort and testing to make sure that that would happen.
Instead, we could turn to Kafka connect in one of its most popular plugins.
The SQL JDBC connector plug-in to do this work for us.
We use the rest API of Kafka connect create a periodic task which carries
all the tables in SQL database and
automatically dumps the records and the topics for each table.
Kafka connect is train work,
what could have been a few weeks of work and to a few minutes of configuration.
Put more technically, Kafka Connect provides
a powerful abstraction over Kafka for your applications.
Because Kafka connect can integrate with your databases and other sources of data,
such as logs, it's possible to avoid
integrating Kafka client code into your applications entirely.